Hello again you wonderful go to people.
Let's start actually coding this game.
I've talked about what it's going to be a look at the assets long enough let's code something in this
video.
We're going to start things off by making a template for our characters by characters I mean the play
a character NPC gods and any other NPC me we may want to see.
Now you may want to see we may want to see Ivan include you in this.
We did do this by making an inheritable scene.
Inheritance is a key concept in God.
And to a degree we've seen a little bit of an inheritance with how children inherent their parents properties.
But this is a more advanced version of that.
But first why would we do that.
What's so important about making an inheritable scene.
Well the short answer is it's a really great way of avoiding repetition and we don't want to repeat
stuff you don't repeat the same lines in code within a script.
So why write the same script several times.
Let's say that in a game we've decided the maximum speed that any character player or non play character
can move that it makes sense to have it in one place.
If nothing else if we need to tweak that value later tweaking in one place is easy.
Remembering everywhere we've put it and keeping track of what we've tweaked to what we haven't is a
pain.
This is gonna allow us to improve our consistency.
Right.
The less things we have to tweak to make something change the better.
Otherwise we can stop winning all kinds of bugs and it's also going to make adding variations easy.
What if we have an NPC that's exactly like this but it does this extra thing or does this one thing
slightly differently inheritable scenes will do that for us.
So with that said let's get him to go to his gut.
And I'm gonna make a brand new scene first and I'll make a folder for it.
This is going to be my character templates on a folder called characters which I'm going to try and
spell roughly correctly.
And I want to put a brand new 2D scene in here.
I'm actually not going to have the be no 2D.
I want to right click on a new change type.
I don't make a kin somatic typing in kinetic body 2D.
You might row we did this before with Bunny.
This site different things can be a top down and a climatic body 2D is going to need a collision shape
and a sprite.
I'm gonna put the sprite in first
and then I'll do the collision shape later.
Before I do that let's see how comfortable you are with this process.
Don't worry if you don't feel quite up to speed yet.
Well my challenge to you is to create a character template.
Find the sprite you think will work and a quick tip.
Use one you're not going to use anywhere else in the game.
That way if something goes wrong you can see it instantly and give it a collision shape.
So pulls a video give it a shot and when you come back I'll show you how I do it.
Welcome back.
All right.
So first thing we do is find a sprite that under graphics and PMG and I've got these people here and
hit man Red is one of that I'm not going to be using.
So I'm going to find hitmen rates stand and it looks very different from the others for example I've
got this Agent 47 looking one of a soldier but I'm going to be using this one.
So I've got hit man red and he's got me my template.
In fact let's rename no 2d to template character just so it's very obvious what's happening.
I need a collision shape so I'm going to add a child to the climatic body node and it's going to be
a collision shape 2D element is a capsule for this and I'm seeing it move to the right place a select
move and just move it right there and then using select on a drive the extents.
So it just covering the body.
I want to cover the shoulders.
I don't really care about the face.
I'm also gonna be slightly off in places but that's fine to hide the clear shapes you don't need that
right now.
Well we'll see what to do.
I'm a select template character and I'm going to make sure that we can only select the parents we're
not going to like the children unless we need to.
So if I drag the template character I'm also dragging the shape in the collision otherwise his will
happen.
So let's make sure that I don't have you selected and I click on it.
Character is here right.
That's going to make a huge difference for our game.
So let's not do that.
Make sure everything's in the right place everything's locked in.
Great.
Okay.
So close with my graphics folder so I can see him doing and get back to my characters folder.
Let's save this character save in characters as template character dot TSC and saved.
Awesome.
Now let's put in a basic script song.
Add a brand new script to template character.
It can be called template character dot G.D..
Perfect.
She don't need anything to put is empty what would put here is any variables constants or code that
everything that is a character must have.
In this case they're going to be constants.
Let's start with a constant called speed.
Now when I write all my constants in capital letters so I'm going through my code.
I can see immediately.
That's a constant.
Don't set it to something else.
If I need to set things I should be setting a variable gotta will let me change the value of a constant
runtime.
But I really shouldn't be doing that.
That's another great way to put bugs in my game because I'm going to think this is a constant.
And then later on the code gets bigger and bigger and bigger it's going to change halfway through the
game.
I'm not going to catch that.
Let's give this speed of 10.
This feels like a slightly magic number right now but will you see a value for now.
We can tweak this later and it can be easier to tweak.
Let's also give it a max speed and one.
Sure what this is going to be is we're going to accelerate by speed unless we're at max speed.
OK.
Nice and easy.
Finally let's give it a consequent friction.
It's actually not a great name for this.
This is a time to stop moving.
Right.
Which I guess I could call it but for summaries of friction feels better if I put zero point one that's
gonna be zero point one seconds a tenth of a second to go from max speed to zero.
That might be too fast.
We could do for instance 10 seconds.
We're going to feel like we're on terrible terrible ice.
One second slightly terrible ice zero point two five whatever you want for now on zero point one just
enough to have a very subtle impact on the player the player won't notice it but it's going to feel
more real than just suddenly stopped moving and that's let's save that.
And that is a very basic script.
We can now inherit that.
Now if I want to inherit it which I'll do the next video.
All I'm going have to do is go new inherited scene and then select What I'm inheriting from.
But that is going to be the next video which as you might expect brings us the end video in this video.
We've looked at how to design inheritable templates.
We've looked at inheritable scenes and inherited scripts which is going to be really useful it's going
to save a lot of time and it's going to mean that adding variations of enemies means we don't have to
keep adding more and more stuff.
Right.
It's gonna be very easy for us to say this is how it works and you tweak a little bit.
So if we wanted to we could at ad attack dogs robots Roomba drones whatever it might be.
So great work and I will see you in the next video.